it's going on everybody this video is
basically going to be like a video blog
kind of my personal record for my first
attempt here bringing super ones but I'm
sure can be reused for for a guide for
anybody might be interested in doing it
themselves so like I said this is date
one just about my super or into your
house individually super worms unlike me
Li's if you've ever read those guys will
not pupate in a community setting so um
you have to put them individually like
this plastic cups film canisters things
like that work great you want to avoid
things like paper cups styrofoam cups
these guys will chew through them and
they will escape these boxes that I have
them in right here these are old tackle
organizers you can get basically anyway
they sell fakie tackle these ones right
here having to come from Bass Pro Shops
they're these great little sliding
dividers a hard plastic so they can't
choose it home and they make these great
little compartments form when you house
your super arms individually like this
you want to make sure you just put the
super warm in there no food starving
kind of helps them what kind of forces
them in a few painting as well so um
basically these boxes hold about 36
right here I have about 100 and 100 or
so 180 I think I have five boxes here so
I'm basically it takes about 10 to 14
days for your for your super warm sub-q
bait can turn into people up so um I'm
gonna check back in basically every
major step of the way so we have day one
here first separating your super worms
and I'll check back in and make an
update about two weeks about 10 to 14
days one see if we have any any people
and he dead super worms that basically
just see where we stand I plan on making
this video go from day one right here to
a full-blown colony so stay watching
alright guys we're back with another
update it has been 11 days and we have
more more people this is just one box
out of the five that I have they all
look pretty much like this this one's
probably the one that's the most
advanced so this one only has five super
forms left there probably bust out of
there today
they've been curled up for a long time
but as you can see the rest are all
people people definitely um correspond
to they're super they're super warm
sides I don't know if you can see this
guy here he was a real tiny super warm
and he made a real tiny pupa and then we
got this guy over here who was a real
big Superman he made a real big pupa so
they definitely uh correlate to how big
they are when you put them to morph um
I've heard some people put taking all
their pupae like this and putting them
together making like a pre beetle pupa
colony I'm gonna opt against doing that
I've heard some horror stories of the
first deals to morph sometimes eating
the other pupils and causing a lot of
problems so I'm just going to leave them
in here until they turn the beetles and
I'm familiar going to they're on
breeding boxes so this is day 11 and we
have people a whole bunch of alright
guys we're back it's day 21 exactly 21
days since I first separated all our
super worms and we have our first
beetles these guys they don't look like
they're fully developed kids are still
kind of red these ones in here as you
can see there's some in here that are
actually like they still like they're
they're kind of half pupae half beetle
they're they're still in there and their
metamorphosis phase but it's really
cool-looking you got some people here so
that they were really kind of creamy
still looking those are those are still
got a ways to go and then you have
others that kind of look burnt almost
they look like like they're dying or
something like that they're not that's
that's part of their metamorphosis after
they turn that real dark kind of burnt
color they pop out and they turn into to
those guys right there and then I guess
from there they pop out and they turn
into those guys right there and then I
guess to get them I have seen beetles
before they're they're much like darker
they're they're really jet black so I'm
gonna leave these guys in here and
to have that real like nice dark black
color I don't want to take them out too
soon all beetles do seem to be eating
they're like sheds they're pupae sheds
so I guess that's that's normal um I'm
going to keep us updated well as soon as
these guys as soon as I move them into
the breeding of habitat bringing a
little box I have for them I'll let you
guys know I'll make another update all
right guys we're back with what I think
is going to be basically our last update
our last update um you saw all our super
warm to turn the beetles so we're done
with those old boxes and now what we're
working with here this is a three drawer
starlight box system it's it's 12 inches
by 12 inches it's actually like 13 by 13
so it's a little bit bigger than one
square foot but um these Dukes three
tours were great the way I have my
system set up here is up this bottom
drawer this is the basically the boots
of reading drawer all my beetles are
here as you can see there's a bunch in
there ton under here bunch in there a
whole bunch in there um these are just
egg cartons you can use on old toilet
paper rolls I've heard people using like
sticks and branches and stuff I
personally wouldn't recommend that I
don't bring anything from outside into
my it's my hair oh so that's just kind
of good good keeping you don't want to
bring parasites any type of bug stuff
like that this is just old nasty celery
you can use any type of fruit or
vegetable really I use carrots celery
grapes potatoes basically anything that
I have lying around that I'm not using
or that's going to go bad then I use
that um so all this stuff down here this
is just regular old raw oatmeal you
combine any grocery store so the beetles
live about 10 to 15 days that's that's
our whole lifespan in that time though
they'll eat they'll make the lay eggs
and then they'll die once all these
beetles are dead once the very last
beetle in here dies I'll take this whole
drawer and all its contents and it moves
up into here which is this is my nursery
basically this holds all the eggs and
all the real real tiny super warms up
you can't really see anything it's uh
you just see oatmeal so
once the super arms in here get a little
bit bigger and you can actually see them
they'll move up into here and this is my
actual suborn feeding drawer if you see
lots of super ones in here again this is
just all regular regular oatmeal you can
buy like the cheapest stuff you can find
generic oatmeal and they love it for
moisture like I said potatoes grapes
carrots celery cucumbers anything you
have lying around the house you know
don't don't make anything special just
for them excuse me but um once you get
to this or your you're basically done
now that I have my beetles in here I put
more super worms to morph to to start
the whole process over again to turn the
pupa by the time they're turning into
pupae and starting their whole processes
turning the beetles these should all be
dead and they should be in the nursery
working on becoming my regular feeder so
basically once you get to this part
you're done here you got your roll call
and you set up and you just got to
maintain it from here so I hope you
hooked up somebody else hope you guys
like the video